README.md, before:

Python development project template
==========================

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

A template for a Python development project.

[[_TOC_]]



Get going
--------------------------

This is how you can work with the development environment.



### Check version of Python

Check what version of Python you have. The Makefile uses `PYTHON=python` as default.

```
# Check you Python installation
make version
```

If you have another naming of the Python executable then you can solve that using an environment variable. This is common on Mac and Linux.

```
# Set the environment variable to be your python executable
export PYTHON=python3
make version
```

Read more on [GNU make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html).



### Python virtual environment

Install a Python virtual environment and activate it.

```
# Create the virtual environment
make venv

# Activate on Windows
. .venv/Scripts/activate

# Activate on Linx/Mac
. .venv/bin/activate
```

When you are done you can leave the venv using the command `deactivate`.

Read more on [Python venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).



### Install the dependencies

Install the PIP packages that are dependencies to the project and/or the development environment. The dependencies are documented in the `requirements.txt`.

Do not forget to check that you have an active venv.

```
# Do install them
make install

# Check what is installed
make installed
```

Read more on [Python PIP](https://pypi.org/project/pip/).



### Run the code

The example program can be started like this.

```
# Execute the main program
python guess/main.py
```

All code is stored below the directory `guess/`.



### Run the validators

You can run the static code validators like this. They check the sourcecode and exclude the testcode.

```
# Run each at a time
make flake8
make pylint

# Run all on the same time
make lint
```

You might need to update the Makefile if you change the name of the source directory currently named `guess/`.

Read more on:

* [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
* [pylint](https://pylint.org/)



### Run the unittests

You can run the unittests like this. The testfiles are stored in the `test/` directory.

```
# Run unttests without coverage
make unittest

# Run unittests with coverage
make coverage

# Run the linters and the unittests with coverage
make test
```

You can open a web browser to inspect the code coverage as a generated HTML report.

```
firefox htmlcov/index.html
```

Read more on:

* [unittest](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html)
* [coverage](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/)



### Remove generated files

You can remove all generated files by this.

```
# Remove files generated for tests or caching
make clean

# Do also remove all you have installed
make clean-all
```



Optional targets
--------------------------

These targets might be helpful when running your project.



### Codestyle with black

You can unify the codestyle using black. Running black will change your source code to have a codestyle according to black codestyle.

```
# Same same, different names
make black
make codestyle
```

Read more on [black](https://pypi.org/project/black/).



More targets
--------------------------

The Makefile contains more targets, they are however not yet tested on this directory structure.

Commit message:

Enable to run only parts of the testsuite

README.md, after:

Python development project template
==========================

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

A template for a Python development project.

[[_TOC_]]



Get going
--------------------------

This is how you can work with the development environment.



### Check version of Python

Check what version of Python you have. The Makefile uses `PYTHON=python` as default.

```
# Check you Python installation
make version
```

If you have another naming of the Python executable then you can solve that using an environment variable. This is common on Mac and Linux.

```
# Set the environment variable to be your python executable
export PYTHON=python3
make version
```

Read more on [GNU make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/manual/make.html).



### Python virtual environment

Install a Python virtual environment and activate it.

```
# Create the virtual environment
make venv

# Activate on Windows
. .venv/Scripts/activate

# Activate on Linx/Mac
. .venv/bin/activate
```

When you are done you can leave the venv using the command `deactivate`.

Read more on [Python venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).



### Install the dependencies

Install the PIP packages that are dependencies to the project and/or the development environment. The dependencies are documented in the `requirements.txt`.

Do not forget to check that you have an active venv.

```
# Do install them
make install

# Check what is installed
make installed
```

Read more on [Python PIP](https://pypi.org/project/pip/).



### Run the code

The example program can be started like this.

```
# Execute the main program
python guess/main.py
```

All code is stored below the directory `guess/`.



### Run the validators

You can run the static code validators like this. They check the sourcecode and exclude the testcode.

```
# Run each at a time
make flake8
make pylint

# Run all on the same time
make lint
```

You might need to update the Makefile if you change the name of the source directory currently named `guess/`.

Read more on:

* [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)
* [pylint](https://pylint.org/)



### Run the unittests

You can run the unittests like this. The testfiles are stored in the `test/` directory.

```
# Run unttests without coverage
make unittest

# Run unittests with coverage
make coverage

# Run the linters and the unittests with coverage
make test
```

You can open a web browser to inspect the code coverage as a generated HTML report.

```
firefox htmlcov/index.html
```

Read more on:

* [unittest](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html)
* [coverage](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/)



### Run parts of the testsuite

You can also run parts of the testsuite, for examples files or methods in files.

You can run all tests from a testfile.

```
# Run a testfile
python -m unittest test.test_game
```

You can also run a single testcase from a file.

```
# Run a test method, in a class, in a testfile
python -m unittest test.test_game.TestGameClass.test_init_default_object
```



### Remove generated files

You can remove all generated files by this.

```
# Remove files generated for tests or caching
make clean

# Do also remove all you have installed
make clean-all
```



Optional targets
--------------------------

These targets might be helpful when running your project.



### Codestyle with black

You can unify the codestyle using black. Running black will change your source code to have a codestyle according to black codestyle.

```
# Same same, different names
make black
make codestyle
```

Read more on [black](https://pypi.org/project/black/).



More targets
--------------------------

The Makefile contains more targets, they are however not yet tested on this directory structure.
